.TH watchteleboy "1" "2015 July 10" "GNU2"
.SH NAME
watchteleboy \- watch and record online HDTV streams
.SH SYNOPSYS
.B watchteleboy
[
.B --record
]
.br
.B watchteleboy
[
.B --help
|
.B --list
|
.B --version
]
.br
.B watchteleboy
[ options ]
.B --record --channel
.I CHANNEL
[
.B --endtime
.I TIME
|
.B --duration
.I SECONDS
[
.B --starttime
.I TIME
]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B watchteleboy
plays and records live HDTV streams.
.PP
When launched without any options,
.B watchteleboy
asks you to select a channel to watch. When launched with
.B --record
, it presents a dialog to let you schedule a recording. Future recordings
are scheduled by an entry in the user's crontab, recordings from the past
(yes,
.B watchteleboy
let's you record from the past, up to six hours back!) are immediately started.
.PP
The first time
.B watchteleboy
is started, it creates a configuration file in $HOME/.watchteleboyrc. It
then asks you for a valid Teleboy login.
.br
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-c, \-\-channel CHANNEL"
Specify the channel to be played or recorded. Without any other options
.B watchteleboy
will immediately start (or record) the specified channel.
.br
Use the option
.I --list
to get a list of available channels.
.IP "\fB\-d, \-\-duration SECONDS"
Specify the duration (in seconds) of the show to be watched or recorded. Alternatively,
you can define
.I --endtime.
.IP "\fB\-e, \-\-endtime ENDTIME"
Specify an end time for a show to be watched or recorded. This might help you
avoid downloading unnecessary data when watching shows from the past. TIME can
be anything understood by the command
.B date
.IP "\fB\-\-delete-cron CHANNEL TIME"
Delete a previously scheduled job from crontab. To match exactly a
specific job you need to specify the CHANNEL and its start time TIME.
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help"
Print a summary of available options and exit.
.IP "\fB\-l, \-\-list"
Print a list of available channels and exit.
.IP "\fB\-q, \-\-quiet"
Do not print any messages or errors, whatsoever.
.IP "\fB\-t, \-\-starttime TIME"
Specify the start time of the show to be watched or recorded. Any time understood
by the command
.B date
might be used. In watching mode, any time from 6 hours in the past until now is
supported, in recording mode any time from 6 hours in the past to anytime in the future.
In recording mode, a start time in the future triggers an entry in the user's crontab.
.IP "\fB\-v, \-\-version"
Print the version of this software and exit.
.SH WATCHING OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-o, \-\-player-opts OPTIONS"
Options passed to player software.
.B watchteleboy
works with several player softwares. It tries to use
.I omxplayer
,
.I mpv
,
.I mplayer
and
.I vlc
(in that order). Player specific options can be defined in the configuration.
When
.I --player-opts
is specified, it overrides any of the matching parameters of the configuration.
.SH RECORDING OPTIONS
Those options can only be used in recording mode, which is set with the
.I --record
option.
In recording mode,
.B watchteleboy
writes the received stream to a local file. The name of the resulting
file is composed of the channel name and the current date and time, by following
this template:
.PP
\fBCHANNEL\fR-\fBYYYYMMDDhhmm\fR.m2t
.PP
The resulting file has the MPEG-2 transport stream file format (.m2t) and contains
a H.264 video and an AAC encoded audio stream. The video resolution is dependent on the
selected stream variant, but is usually 1280x720 pixels.
.IP "\fB\-n, \-\-showname NAME"
Specify a filename prefix that is used instead of the channel name.
.IP "\fB\-p, \-\-path DIRECTORY"
Specify directory where recorded shows are saved. The
default is the current directory.
.IP "\fB\-r, \-\-record"
Record a stream instead of watching it.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
If it exists,
.B watchteleboy
will read parameters from its configuration file, which is located
in $HOME/.watchteleboyrc. Those parameters may be overriden by options specified on the
command line.
.PP
.I PARAMETERS:
.RS
RECORDPATH
.RS
Directory where recordings are saved (overriden by
.I --path
).
.RE
OMXPLAYEROPTS
.RS
Options passed to omxplayer. omxplayer is the recommended player on Raspberry Pis.
This parameter has no effect in record mode.
.RE
MPVOPTS
.RS
Options passed to mpv. mpv is the recommended player on most systems. This parameter
has no effect in record mode
.RE
MPLAYEROPTS
.RS
Options passed to mplayer. This parameter has no effect in record mode.
.RE
VLCOPTS
.RS
Options passed to vlc. This parameter has no effect in record mode.
.RE
BUFFERSECONDS
.RS
defines how much data is downloaded before playback starts.
.B watchteleboy
will wait to play the stream until
.I BUFFERSECONDS * BITRATE / 8
bytes have been downloaded. If you often experience premature player exits, it is advised
to increase that value. The default is 8 (which means two stream segments).
.RE
MAXBITRATE
.RS
Sets a limit on the bitrate used by the stream and the variant with the highest bitrate
that still respect the limit is used. This has an impact on the resulting file size and
the video resolution of the file.
.RE
CHANNELLISTTYPE
.RS
Sets the type of channel list to be used. Allowed values are 'all', 'customized'. 'all'
shows all available channels in default order, 'customized' shows user-selected channels
in user selected order. The selection and order can be configured by visiting:
http://www.teleboy.ch/en/sender
.RE
TELEBOY_USER
.RS
Teleboy account the script uses to login to the service.
.RE
TELEBOY_PASS
.RS
Password for the given Teleboy account.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.B Schedule a recording using interactive dialogs:
.RS
.PP
watchteleboy --record
.PP
.RE
.B Schedule a recording:
.RS
.PP
watchteleboy --record --channel "ARTEHD" --starttime "20:15" --endtime "22:00"
.PP
.RE
.B Record for an hour from now:
.RS
.PP
watchteleboy --record --channel "ARTEHD" --duration 3600
.PP
.RE
.B Record from now until tonight at 23:15:
.RS
.PP
watchteleboy --record --channel "ARTEHD" --endtime "23:15"
.PP
.RE
.B Watch 'Tatort' when the children finally are asleep:
.RS
.PP
watchteleboy -c "ARDHD" -t "20:15" -e "21:50"
.PP
.RE
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs and feature requests to https://github.com/reduzent/watchteleboy
.SH AUTHOR
Roman Haefeli <reduzent@gmail.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mpv (1),
.BR crontab (1),
.BR date (1)

