.TH watchteleboy "1" "2013 Oct 23" "GNU2"
.SH NAME
watchteleboy \- watch and record online TV streams from teleboy.ch
.SH SYNOPSYS
.B watchteleboy
[
.B --record
]
.br
.B watchteleboy
[
.B --help
|
.B --list
|
.B --version
]
.br
.B watchteleboy
[ options ]
.B --record --channel
.I CHANNEL
[
.B --endtime 
.I TIME 
|
.B --duration
.I SECONDS
[
.B --starttime
.I TIME 
]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B watchteleboy
plays and records live IPTV streams provided by the free
(as in "free beer") online TV service from teleboy.ch.
.PP
When launched without any options, 
.B watchteleboy
goes into interactive mode and presents a list of available channels.
.PP
When launched for the first time, 
.B watchteleboy
will ask you to provide your login for the teleboy.ch service. Those
settings will be saved to the configuration file $HOME/.watchteleboyrc.
.br
.I CAUTION:
The password will be stored in plain text!
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-c, \-\-channel CHANNEL"
Specify the channel to be played or recorded. Without any other options
.B watchteleboy
will immediately start (or record) the specified channel.
.br
Use the option
.I --list
to get a list of available channels.
.IP "\fB\-\-delete-cron CHANNEL TIME"
Delete a previously scheduled job from crontab. To match exactly a 
specific job you need to specify the CHANNEL and its start time TIME.
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help"
Print a summary of available options and exit.
.IP "\fB\-l, \-\-list"
Print a list of available channels and exit. The list of available channels is 
directly retrieved from teleboy.ch. 
.IP "\fB\-q, \-\-quiet"
Try to suppress any output to stderr and also do not ask for confirmation.
.IP "\fB\-\-skip\-logincheck"
Don't check, if login was successfull and continue anyway. This might be useful
when login actually was successful but is wronly reported as failed. This might
happen when teleboy.ch change their service.
.IP "\fB\-v, \-\-version"
Print the version of this software and exit. 
.SH OPTIONS FOR RECORDING
Those options can only be used in recording mode, which is set with the
.I --record
option.
In recording mode,
.B watchteleboy
writes the received stream to a local file. The name of the resulting 
file is composed of the channel name and the current date and time, following
this template:
.PP
\fBCHANNEL\fR-\fBYYYYMMDDhhmm\fR.flv
.PP
The format is flash video (.flv), containing a H.264 video and an AAC encoded
audio stream. The video resolution usually is 768x432 pixels.
.IP "\fB\-e, \-\-endtime TIME"
Schedule the end time of the recording. If used without the
.I --starttime
option, recording starts immediately and stops at specified time.
.br
Accepts
anything that is understood by the
.B date
command. Check 
.BR date (1)
for more details. 
.IP "\fB\-d, \-\-duration SECONDS"
Specify the duration of the recording. The recording starts immediately
and ends after SECONDS seconds.
.IP "\fB\-n, \-\-showname NAME"
Specify a filename prefix that is used instead of the channel name.
.IP "\fB\-p, \-\-path DIRECTORY"
Specify target directory. This works also for interactive mode. The
default is the current directory.
.IP "\fB\-r, \-\-record"
Record a stream instead of watching it.
.IP "\fB\-t, \-\-starttime TIME"
Schedule the start time for a recording. Using this option doesn't start a
recording directly, but writes an appropriate entry to the current user's
crontab file. This entry is automatically removed as soon as the recording
has started.
.br
Accepts
anything that is understood by the
.B date
command. Check 
.BR date (1)
for more details. 
.br
.I NOTE:
For using this option either one of the options
.I --endtime
or
.I --duration
and the option 
.I --channel
are mandatory.
.SH MPLAYER SPECIFIC OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-m, \-\-mplayer\-opts OPTS"
Allows to pass options directly to 
.BR mplayer (1).
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
If it exists, 
.B watchteleboy 
will read parameters from its configuration file, which is located
in $HOME/.watchteleboyrc. Those parameters are overriden by options specified on the
command line.
.PP
.I PARAMETERS:
.RS 
USER
.RS
Username from the teleboy.ch login.
.RE
PASS
.RS
Password from the teleboy.ch login.
.RE
RECORDPATH
.RS 
Directory where recordings are saved (overriden by
.I --path
).
.RE
CHANNEL
.RS
Default channel to be used (overriden by
.I --channel
).
.RE
ORIGAUDIO
.RS
Some channels come with two audio tracks: standard (overdub) and original. Setting
this parameter to 1 makes watchteleboy chose the original track, if available. 
.RE
MPLAYEROPTS
.RS
Options passed to mplayer (overriden by
.I --mplayer-opts
). This option will be ignored, when 
.I --record
is used.
.RE
BUFFER
.RS
Sets the buffer size in bytes. In watching mode, 
.B watchteleboy 
will wait to play the stream until 
.I BUFFER
bytes have been downloaded. If you often experience sudden abortions, it is advised
to increase that value. The default is 500000.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.B Schedule a recording using interactive dialogs:
.RS
.PP
watchteleboy --record
.PP
.RE
.B Schedule a recording:
.RS
.PP
watchteleboy --record --channel arte --starttime "20:15" --endtime "22:00"
.PP
.RE
.B Record for an hour from now:
.RS
.PP
watchteleboy --record --channel arte --duration 3600
.PP
.RE
.B Record from now until tonight at 23:15:
.RS
.PP
watchteleboy --record --channel arte --endtime "23:15"
.PP
.RE
.B Watch ARTE in fullscreen mode, correct the aspect ratio  and use jack as audio back-end:
.RS
.PP
watchteleboy --channel arte --mplayer-opts "-fs -aspect 4/3 -ao jack"
.PP
.SH RESTRICTIONS
This program might only work in Switzerland, since the teleboy.ch service is only
available to Swiss IP addresses.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs and suggestions to reduzent@gmail.com
.SH AUTHOR
Roman Haefeli <reduzent@gmail.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mplayer (1), 
.BR rtmpdump (1),
.BR crontab (1),
.BR date (1)

